Previously on Empire...
ANIKA: You think
that someone pushed you?
RHONDA:
I really don't know.
Freda, did you say something
about Frank Gathers?
Yeah, that's my father.
He got murdered in prison.
The Lyon family
will be performing
at this year's ASA awards.
Jamal,
you know D-Major,
musical director
for the ASAs.
JAMAL: Of course.
D-MAJOR:
I try to keep things
professional, man.
And because you're not out.
You know I don't want
to make you do anything
you don't feel comfortable with.
Tiana's doing a duet
with you on a song
you yourself told me
would go platinum.
The producers wanted her.
I bet you never
even brought me up.
If it was me,
I'd be jealous.
If my sister had everything
and I had nothing.
CAROL: You know, I'm about
to get my 90-day chip.
Carol.
Tariq?
So, what, you working
for the NYPD?
No, I quit the force
a long time ago.
COOKIE:
Lucious, who is this lady?
This is Leah Walker,
Lucious' mother.
COOKIE:
She's just a little, old lady,
and there is
nothing to fear.
I'm sorry I was too weak
to kill you
when I had the chance.
Now, tomorrow's the ASAs,
and this song
has to be the highlight
of the show.
I want the entire world
talking about it, okay?
Bring us in.
Stop, stop, stop, stop,
you're too tentative
on the entrance.
You know what?
Start again.
(drummer plays intro)
(band joins in)
Stop. Remember
it's a lullaby.
Look, we're gonna be here
all night until
you get this right.
Okay, start one more time.
Two, three, four.
(band playing)
No, no.
I want the strings
to come in just like that.
Let's try that again.
That chord, uh...
(Lucious vocalizing with piano)
No, tired is not an option.
Get it together.
Bring me back in one more time.
Stop for a second.
Just give me... g-give me
drums and give me bass.
That pace...
that's where we need to be at.
Stop. We're getting there.
We're getting there.
Bring me back in.
Make sure it's strong.
There's no room for error.
Yeah.
This is the ASAs.
(Lucious vocalizing)
I like that, keep going.
Take us there.
Yeah.
Bass, yeah, keep going.
I'm liking this a lot.
Yeah.
(band plays harmoniously)
Give me a couple
minutes here.
Yes.
You guys sound amazing.
Band sounds
great, Lucious.
Thanks, Cook.
They're getting there.
What's up?
How's your mama?
She's still crazy.
She's still
at your house, right?
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
What's up?
Um, Lucious, look,
I need you to get some rest.
You've been at
this all night.
Give the band a break.
I'll rest when I'm dead,
but right now we got
the ASAs tomorrow,
and they got to be airtight.
You know that this ain't
about the ASAs.
This is about you
avoiding your mother.
Why you letting that woman
do this to you?
Look, stay in
your lane, Cookie.
Hey, Lucious, come here.
Lucious...
you're working yourself
so hard so you can avoid.
You have
to deal with this.
Look, you didn't
go home last night.
The other night you stayed
in your office.
I told you,
the woman's dangerous,
and I don't trust her.
All right?
Can I get back
to work, please?
All right, Lucious.
All right, count us
back in, sweetheart.
FEMALE REPORTER:
We are one day away
from the 54th Annual
American Sound Awards.
The big question
everybody is asking:
which Lyon will come...
ANNOUNCER: Tomorrow night
on Fox, the 54th...
WEATHERMAN:
The rain is supposed to clear up
for tomorrow, so it should be...
Ms. Walker.
Toast, ham, scrambled eggs,
everything you like.
No. Seasoning.
Pardon me?
You don't season your food.
I'm not eating it.
Just give me coffee.
...covering the red carpet.
Forecast earlier...
MAN:
It's an honor to be nominated--
I mean, a big honor--
and I'm really exci...
(cheering on television)
I thought I fired you.
Hmm.
WOMAN:
Katy Perry, Taylor Swift.
WOMAN 2:
Ah, well, I can't wait
to see what Taylor Swift...
FEMALE REPORTER:
In the video for his nominated
hit song,
"Boom Boom Boom Boom,"
Lucious Lyon shares
a heartbreaking story about his
bipolar mother
who took her own life.
It's a rare look inside
one man's very
personal journey
through pain and poverty.
Lucious Lyon's
own journey this year
has been remarkable,
having served
three months in prison
for what many
consider a racially
motivated prosecution,
and then losing
and regaining control
of his Empire Entertainment,
only to emerge with...
Boom.
...one of the biggest
hits of his career.
* Bang, bang, bang, bang
* Boom, boom, boom, boom
Boom.
* Bang, bang, bang, bang
He's always been a liar.
A bald-faced liar.
* Bang, bang, bang, bang.
*
Thank you, William.
Okay.
Hey, Cook, look, Rhonda
just fit me in this dress.
It's banging, right?
So what do you think
about me wearing
it to the ASAs?
Thanks. Sure, but not
if you're going with me.
You need to tell Rhonda
to get you something
a little more appropriate.
You look like a cheap
prostitute.
So what skank you think
Lucious is taking?
Girl, I don't know,
and I don't care.
All I care about is getting
those boys up on that stage,
because come Sunday,
all the headlines
are gonna be calling us
"The First Family of Hip Hop,"
and that is all I care about.
Girl, guess who I ran
into at the restaurant
on Great Jones Street.
Tariq Cousins,
remember him?
Fine-ass Tariq?
Tariq the Freak?
Yeah.
The cop?
No, no...
he's not working
for the Philly PD anymore.
He lives here
in New York.
(phone chimes)
Girl...
he just invited me
to dinner at Laviticus.
Ooh, you know,
I'm gonna ask Rhonda
if I could borrow this dress
just in case Tariq
wants to freak!
Yes, Tariq!
(sighs)
*
JAMAL: * Said I got to do,
got to do my own thing *
* I do my own thing
* Do my own thing
* I got to do
my own thing *
JAMAL:
* Do my own thing
FREDA:
* Yo
* Whoop
* Can't nobody tell me
* Can't nobody
tell me *
* What to do,
tell me what to do *
JAMAL:
* Can't nobody, ugh
FREDA:
* Uh, everything I do
* Is me, what you mean?
* We gon' keep it 100
* A bean
* No stranger to struggling
* Making something
out of nothing *
* Yeah
* Uh, yeah, for nothin'
* It's somethin', I do it
* Oh, yeah
* I want it, I get it
* So I'm gettin' to it
* Do my own thing
* Came this far, it's all me
* Doin' what I do
FREDA:
* I got to do my own thing
* Yeah
* My way, my way
* I got to do it my way
JAMAL:
* Doin' my own thing
* Trippin' on
* Nobody
* Makin' my moves
FREDA:
* I got to do my own thing
* My way, my way, my way
* Yeah, I got
to do it my way. *
So?
I mean, obviously,
we ain't done yet,
but what do you think?
I, uh...
on the real...
...that's that brand-new
right there.
You got something.
Yeah?
(chuckles)
You do.
Yeah, it's fire.
Yo, seriously, though,
he's a tougher critic
than my mom.
I know, wow.
Thank you.
Oh, no, no, no, no,
the two of y'all did that.
For real, you got magic.
Thank you.
Oh!
We can't lose it!
That's magic.
That's what's up, right?
Right, look, I'm-a get back
to the shop, cut some heads.
Yeah.
D-Major, man,
I appreciate it;
it's a pleasure.
All right.
I'll catch y'all later.
All right, Freda.
All right.
(elevator bell dings)
J... it's time
to let your mom go.
You ain't serious?
I'm dead-ass.
Hell no, Derek.
That's my mother,
and-and besides,
I love working with her.
She's producing the whole damn
Black and White album.
Jamal...
you're so much
bigger than whatever
your moms and pops could do
for your sound right now.
Plus they keep you twisted up.
It's time for
you to be more
than a musical
mama's boy.
You should level up.
Let me produce your next album.
You want to produce
my next album?
Yeah.
Unless I ain't
big enough for you.
Party with disguises.
Ten letters.
You tell me.
Masked ball.
(chuckles)
So, you good, Grandma?
Are you eating right?
You taking your medication?
So many pills, make me choke.
Why can't they put
it all in one?
But you feel
better, right?
Do the staff take you out
to get some fresh air?
So many maids and people
working in this house,
it feels like
Gone with the Wind.
But everybody treats you
respectfully, right?
I don't like being left out.
Left out, how?
They talk about
it on the TV,
and I know Dwight's
gonna be in it.
You talking
about the ASAs?
They said my whole
family's performing,
but nobody invited me.
Do you know
I've never even
seen him on a stage?
Lucious Lyon.
Look, I'd-I'd love to
take you to the ASAs, Grandma.
I'd need to talk
to Empire's PR department
to see if we can even
get an extra ticket.
Tell Dwight
to talk to them.
He can get me a ticket.
(sighs)
You'd need a new dress...
and I would have to
run it by Pop. It could be
a tricky situation.
Because he wishes I was dead.
Grandma, he doesn't
wish that you were...
That's what he
told everybody
in that movie he made.
That was just a movie.
Okay, it was a story,
make-believe.
Now, the problem...
I won't tell anybody he lied,
if that's what you're scared of.
I just want to see
my grandbabies up there
on that stage, that's all.
It would destroy
his credibility
if anybody found
out, Grandma.
It'd be bad for Empire,
and it would be
really, really bad for Pop.
Honey, there's gonna be
so many pretty girls there,
nobody's even
gonna look sideways
at a little old lady.
Hey, Rhonda.
Hey.
Oh, hey.
Sorry, do you
have a minute?
Well, I'm on my way
to a fitting for a bunch
of artists for
the ASAs, uh, well...
I'll meet you guys there,
just go ahead without me.
Sure.
Hey, sorry.
Sorry, I barely
have a minute.
What's up?
Um...
You weren't at yoga
the other day and, uh,
I thought I'd see you there,
and I've been texting you,
and it's just not like you
to not respond, so...
I've just been crazed
dressing all these artists,
that's all.
Oh, okay.
Oh.
Oh, my God,
I'm starting to show,
and it's painful for you,
I'm sorry, Rhonda.
No.
I'm so stupid.
No, no, Anika.
I should be
more sensitive.
I'm fine, honestly.
I'm happy for you.
But I was gonna ask you
a question, actually.
Do you remember
when you came over
that day to see
the nursery and...
you were wearing
those really cute shoes?
They had red soles.
They were Louboutins, right?
Oh, God, I don't remember
what I was wearing.
(laughing): Why?
Just because I feel like
they're good day-to-night shoes,
so I was wondering if you
were wearing them that night.
Were you?
Did we see each other
that night?
I don't know.
Did we?
LAURA:
Okay, so...
think a winter wonderland.
Snow...
icicles, an all silver cake.
That's gonna be shiny.
All the mags are
already scrambling
to get the first pictures
of the bride and groom.
Look, I don't even know if
I want paparazzi at our wedding.
But if we give
Us Weekly an exclusive,
maybe they'll highlight
some of my music
on their site.
It's just one magazine. I don't
think that'll cheapen it.
* Do it *
* Tell mama you know I...
Look, Laura, bae, I don't
want you to blame yourself.
It's my fault.
* Say it *
* You gon' have to do less
when you... *
But your career ain't gonna take
off the way we wanted it to.
* Show it *
* See, you gon' need
to do more than just *
* Prove it *
* Oh, baby
You don't believe in me anymore.
* You know
* Say it, baby
* Do it, baby...
Look, we worked hard,
the both of us.
You did a couple dope songs.
You opened up
for Tiana on tour...
but it just hasn't popped yet.
* Baby...
But look...
we can still give
Us Weekly that exclusive.
Stop.
* See your body move
in different ways... *
My dream is marrying you.
(kisses)
That's enough for me right now.
* You make me come through
* I get so close to you.
Carol's story panned out.
Tariq quit the force in 2010.
Why?
Don't know, files are sealed.
Some kind of police policy.
Even Thirst couldn't open it up,
which means...
Which means he's a Fed now.
That's what it means.
Yeah, but
this is the problem,
now, I mean, why would
the Feds want to
rumble with me again,
especially after that little
fiasco with Roxanne Ford?
Now your boy,
Tariq, I mean,
I ain't never
hung with him,
but he was always respectful
back when we was grinding,
but him and your sister,
that's...
Exactly, why would he want
to get mixed up with Carol?
Everybody know
Carol's a crackhead...
and she got three
illegitimate kids.
That don't make sense.
They not slick.
Thirsty might be done
investigating Tariq,
but I'm not.
Speaking about crackheads,
why are you taking her
to the ASAs?
Yeah, well, I heard
you was gonna ask me
until you found out
I had a date.
No, that's all right,
I'm-a take a supermodel.
Oh, Lucious, don't nobody
want your fat ass.
Yeah, I'm only fat
where it counts.
In the mouth.
* Come and get it,
come and get it *
(chuckles)
* Come and get it,
come and get it *
* You know we got it over here,
be clear *
* Baby, I know
that you're wit' it *
* Come and get it, uh
* Ten bottles at the table
* You know we got it over here,
be clear, baby... *
Well, well, well.
Cookie.
If it isn't
Tariq Cousins.
You okay?
Did I scare you?
No, no, good to see you.
Eh, don't lie.
Look like you seen a ghost.
(both laugh)
I'm not as gullible
as my sister.
(both chuckle)
Uh-huh.
Ooh, uh, FYI,
she doesn't know I'm here.
Uh-huh.
Carol, she always late.
Yeah.
I remember you bailing her out
of a bunch of jams.
Yeah, family,
that's what you do.
Of course, you stole a bunch
of her boyfriends, too,
and didn't she even hook up
with, uh, Lucious
before y'all hooked up?
See, that's not quite
how that happened,
Tariq the Freak.
(both chuckle)
The Freak.
Look, I know you a Fed,
so you better
not be planning
on putting the squeeze
on my sister
to try to come
for me or my family.
You got something to hide?
(laughs)
It's an innocent date.
I ran into her and wanted
to hang, you know.
Hmm.
New York
is colder than a pimp's heart
on $65K a year.
Mm.
I miss Philly.
Yeah, we always said
you was one of the good ones.
Yeah,
you never forgot the "G" code.
Nah, never that.
I grew up on
those streets, Cookie.
That code means more
to me than any
badge I wear,
any oath of office I take...
which is why I'm
surprised you still
rocking with Lucious
when he's the one who
violated it.
Lucious?
Yeah.
Yeah, he killed
your cousin, Bunkie.
You enjoy
your dinner
at my and Lucious' club.
Oh, and watch out.
My sister has herpes.
Hope it's not too late.
(grunts)
FEMALE REPORTER: The countdown
to the ASAs is on.
What will your favorite
star be wearing?
Who will be best dressed,
worst, and most importantly,
who will they be posing with?
Stay tuned.
STEVE:
Tonight's gonna be a madhouse.
Okay, so you handle Jamal
'cause he's got to get
the most press
out of this, uh...
Steve, can y'all excuse me
for a second?
So, did you have fun
with Tariq last night?
As a matter of fact, I did,
and he told me
you came to say hey.
Why don't you just
back off, Cookie?
Tariq's interested
in me, not you.
What did you tell him?
What do you think, I'm stupid?
(chuckles)
He's not
investigating anybody.
Oh, he's not?
No.
Okay.
No, we just talked.
All we did was talk.
Oh, well, what did
y'all talk about?
He told me that Raheem
had to get his leg
cut off from
the knee down.
Raheem, really?
Really?
He is working you, stupid.
No, he is not!
(sighs)
You know,
it is possible
for a good man
to like me, Cookie,
and this time,
you're not gonna steal him
or try to poison him in my head.
Come here.
Come here. Come over
here and talk to me.
Sit down, you're
all the way over there.
You're all tense.
You had a drink last night
with Tariq, didn't you?
Man, I told you, if
you fall off again,
that your ass was out,
and I meant that!
You know you always stealing
my boyfriends, right?
You stole Sean,
then Kyle, yeah... Lucious.
Right...
right, 'cause...
if I'd never showed up,
Lucious would have
ended up with you.
Yeah, well, he met me first,
then here you come.
Here come Cookie.
Every time
you fall off the wagon,
I get the blame.
I'm sick of it, Carol.
You really believe
that you deserve my life.
Your sick ass
really believe that.
Candace was
right about you.
Candace.
Yeah, she was so right
about you.
You don't give a damn
about me.
All you care
about is making
yourself feel better.
That's why you keep me around.
You ain't got
nothing of your own,
just what Lucious
is letting you have.
That's how you feel?
Yeah, that's how it is.
Okay...
well, then bounce, Carol.
Bounce your ass
out of my company.
That's how you feel?
I don't care about you?!
Then get your raggedy stuff
out of my apartment!
That's what you can do since
I don't care about you,
and you know what,
forget about the ASAs!
'Cause I'm not taking
no washed up crackhead
to no ASAs!
'Cause you ain't
gonna embarrass me.
Get out!
I don't care
about you.
I said get out!
Get out!
I don't care about you.
(music playing)
* Gonna tell a story of
* A fella who fell in love
* I said that I had before
* But now I'm even mesure,
phonetically in my *
* Heart
* I thought that
I would get the less *
* But now I see I get the best
* No more time wasted,
not trying to make a statement *
* The words are coming
out my head *
* At night
* In the moonlight
* I see your smiling eyes...
Hey, man, I love that.
You know what I really
love about it?
It's your voice, man.
It resonates.
* You are my butterfly
I still say the tempo
is too slow.
* You knew I'd be your man
You need to
work on that.
Yeah, I could do that.
* You needed me
Hey, Jamal.
* And now just like...
Promise me something.
Mm-hmm.
When you see me tonight,
on the carpet
with Chanel,
don't let that mean
anything to you.
* I wanna say
* I know I...
(stops music)
You know how many rappers
and producers are gonna be
on the carpet with
supermodels as their beard?
No, it's wack.
Listen, man, relax.
It's just one night.
Yo, get off me, man!
Bro, don't you ever come
at me like that again, bro.
What?
You heard me, what?
I swear, if you ever
touch me like that ag...
Yo, Lucious,
this your son?
Yo, you need
to talk to him.
'Cause this ain't cool.
(laughs)
I see D-Major's still on the DL.
Must've got to you.
You knew?
A real dog can always
tell a fake bitch.
Dad, can you stop
with all the stupid riddles.
How did you know?
I've been in this business
so long, you think I don't
know a little bit about
everybody in this industry?
And even though D-Major's
a talented producer,
his secret life
is not so secretive.
And everybody knows
how he likes to turn
rich boys into his little bitch.
How do you know I ain't turning
him into my little bitch?
He came on to me.
I didn't come on to him.
Exactly.
I bet you he's on top.
You're disgusting, Dad.
No.
What's disgusting is what
you're doing in my studio.
Anybody could've walked
in here and saw you,
and I taught you
better than that.
You don't crap
where you eat.
Yeah, Dad, you're right.
You're enjoying this.
Enjoying what?
You think I enjoy watching
my son become some closet
phony's little bitch?
Look, man, I've tried to be
sensitive to your way of life.
There it is. S-Sensitive
to-to my way of life.
I've listened to you.
I've tried to tolerate something
that is intolerable
to my nature.
I tried to understand
and be respectful
of your choices,
but you don't respect me.
You just keep throwing
this unnatural way
of life into my face.
I've tried to talk
to you as a man,
but all you do is turn
into some little girl,
mad about something I did to you
20 years ago.
You're crying like a little
bitch about your mother
throwing you in some water
40 years ago,
so what does that say about you?
Can't even look the woman
in the eyes without crying.
I'm not crying.
Always telling me,
"Jamal, don't be
a little sissy bitch.
Put it into music."
Well, Lucious, don't be a sissy
bitch. Put it into mu...
You ain't nothing to me
but a disappointment.
And the day you die from AIDS...
...I'm gonna celebrate.
Right when you think that
Lucious can't stoop any lower,
he does, every single time.
Okay, what did he do?
So I'm in the studio
with D-Major,
'cause he wants
to produce me and Freda.
And then Lucious...
Wh-Wh-What did
you just say?
Mom, I told him no, okay?
But at this point, I should
work with more producers.
Okay, so you're back
working with Freda?
Why is that important?
That's not even the issue.
Jamal, come on.
Lucious comes
into the studio...
No, no, no, no, you need
to let Freda go, Jamal.
No, Ma. Mom, no.
You got to let her go.
This is not about Freda.
This is about Lucious.
This is about me.
And the things that we said
that you can't come back from.
Hey, hey, hey. (sighs)
You remember that prosecutor
who was so hell-bent on trying
to bring your father down?
Yeah, um, Tits McGee.
Yeah, that bitch.
Well, the Feds are still
coming for us.
Okay?
So we need to lay low,
all right?
Be easy. Be careful.
All of us.
We need to lay low?
All of us?
Nah, they're coming for Lucious.
And tell me why I should
care about that.
I got to worry about what's
wrong with him and my music.
What would be my incentive
to let go of my music for him?
(sighs)
You ever wonder how I got
out early on good behavior?
Honestly, I-I assumed you
informed on somebody, but I...
His name...
(gunshots)
Did you see who shot him?
Can you name that shooter?
Frank Gathers.
Ma, you snitched on Freda's dad?
Yeah, I snitched.
So what? I snitched.
I snitched.
That was the only damn time
I ever snitched.
And he ends up on--
in lock-up with our father.
Ma, did Lucious have something
to do with his murder?
That was a very
dangerous man, okay?
He would've killed all of us,
without batting an eye.
And Freda?
You know that apple
didn't fall far from the tree.
So I need you to let her go,
Jamal.
It's dangerous.
For all of us, okay?
Okay.
Grandma?
Hey, ready to go?
We're going
to the show.
Yes, ma'am, but we
have to leave right now,
before my father comes
home to get dressed.
All right, Rhonda picked out
a beautiful gown for you.
You can get dressed backstage
in the greenroom, okay?
Let's go.
Dwight doesn't
want me there?
Oh, n-n-n-no,
he's just...
He's very nervous,
that's all.
It's a big night for him.
Going somewhere?
I'm gonna need your phone.
A woman that beautiful
shouldn't walk the
red carpet alone.
You want my arm to fall off?
(laughs)
Shut up, Billy Dee.
I heard somebody needed
a date for the ASAs.
Yeah, well, you know, Carol's
back drinking again, so...
Well, Carol's more
of a plus one.
Not a date.
(laughs)
Baby?
Hmm?
I got you something.
What is that?
A joke?
Open it.
Is this a trick?
(screams)
Oh, my...
(chuckles)
Ooh-hoo-hoo! Ooh.
Let me put it on you.
This must have
been as much
as a sports car, huh?
A little more than a Ferrari
but less than a Lamborghini.
Oh, my.
Look at that.
Yeah, the way I see it,
tonight is our night, Cook.
I mean, this is what
we dreamed about way back
when we were selling CDs
out of the back
of that old hooptie in Philly.
Among other things
we were selling.
I knew we'd get here,
I just didn't know
it was gonna
take us this long.
COOKIE:
See, you hear that?
Yeah, I kind of like the
little riff, but the, um...
...lyrics suck.
Lucious.
The song is about a man
who's in love with a woman
who don't love him back.
I swear, I couldn't imagine
going with anyone but you.
(chuckles)
COOKIE:
Baby,
this album... is gonna be big.
I can feel it.
Remember we used to have
to duct-tape the
driver's side of the door
so you wouldn't fall out?
Oh, we was so
raggedy back then.
Yeah, and you'd talk
about what you wanted to wear
and what you were gonna say.
And you told me I couldn't
say nothing on the red carpet
'cause I would
just sound stupid,
so you was going
to do the talking.
You was always saying
stupid stuff back then.
Ain't nothing
changed, really.
(both laugh)
So, is that why
you're taking me?
That and... I really miss
that booty of yours.
Mm-hmm, I know you do.
I know you're looking at it
while I'm walking away.
I'm trying not to.
(both laugh)
You're such a flirt.
LEAH:
Get off me.
(grunts)
What the hell are you doing?
Just following the
boss man's orders.
No disrespect, Andre.
You, too, Granny.
Come on.
Get 'em in there.
Hey, at least you got
a TV in there.
Daddy wanted you to be able
to watch the ASAs.
TV ANNOUNCER:
For 54 years,
the American Sound Awards
Enjoy the show.
have defined excellence
in music...
Every year the world's favorite
musicians and artists
come together to shine
and be a part of
New York City's most anticipated
night of the year.
Welcome to the ASAs.
(crowd cheering)
(journalists clamoring)
*
* Ooh, ooh, ooh
* Ooh, ooh
* Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
* Okay, okay, okay
* You're stupid funky
* I'm stupid fly
* Don't make no sense
* But that's all right
* Don't need no money
* Boy, I'm a dime
* You call me lady
* I'll call you guy
* Ooh, babe, you got
a good thing coming *
* Ooh, babe,
you got a good thing coming *
* Ooh, babe, you got
a good thing coming *
* F-A-B-U-L-O-U-S,
I'm fabulous *
* I know I'm fabulous,
I know, I know I'm fabulous *
MAN: Hakeem, here!
* I know I'm fabulous
* I know, I know I'm fabulous
WOMAN:
Hakeem!
* I know, I know I'm fabulous
* F-A-B-U-L-O-U-S
* I'm fabulous
* Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
WOMAN:
Freda, right here!
MAN:
Freda, right here,
you look great! Freda!
REPORTER: The big story tonight
is the Lyons performing
their brand-new Family Anthem.
Can it live up to the
relentless hype?
COOKIE:
What you will see
on that stage tonight
is a real family.
Yeah, see,
we're not the Brady Bunch,
we're not the Partridges.
Hell,
we ain't even the Jacksons.
We are the Lyons.
(chuckles)
* I'm fabulous
* Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
Can we get you alone, Hakeem?
Just a few more steps back.
Thank you.
* Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
* Go tell your mama
* Go tell your friends
* Get you some follows
on Instagram *
Yeah, Lucious may drive us all
a little crazy
every now and again,
but he's our king.
And he's a genius.
And he's the reason why we
are the first family of music.
Thank you.
* Ooh, babe,
you got a good thing coming *
* Ooh, babe, you got
a good thing coming *
* F-A-B-U-L-O-U-S
* I'm fabulous
REPORTER: We're here
with Jamal Lyon,
who is the most
nominated artist at the ASAs.
Congratulations.
Thank you very much.
So, Jamal, do you have a special
someone with you tonight?
MAN:
Over here, man! D-Major!
(photographers clamoring)
Nah, not at all.
I'm here all by myself
and proud of it.
Well, I hear that you're working
on the Black and White album.
Care to share any
updates on that?
Yes, I'm shelving it.
The whole thing?
Oh, it sounds like there's
trouble in the Lyon family.
No, no. Come on, no.
But I need to make
an album that's for me,
not for my parents, so...
y'all enjoy
tonight's performance.
It's the last time you'll see
me onstage with my family.
You heard it here first.
What are you doing?
* Ooh, babe, you got
a good thing coming *
* Ooh, babe,
you got a good thing coming *
* F-A-B-U-L-O-U-S
* I'm fabulous
FREDA:
Hey, yo, Mal.
Yo, this is crazy.
Everybody's shouting my name
like I'm a star or something.
Well, you are
a star, Freda.
Mmm.
Yo, after all this is done, um,
we should talk
about you leaving Empire.
I'll set you up with a new
label, new management.
Everything. Ev-Every
label in the world's
going to want you
after this, you know?
Well, I'm good at Empire.
What about our album?
We good, all right?
Trust me.
Get away from Empire.
* F-A-B-U-L-O-U-S
* I'm fabulous
* I know I'm fabulous
* I know, I know I'm fabulous
* F-A-B-U-L-O-U-S
* I'm fabulous.
(applause and cheering)
I'm so glad that my life story
is inspiring others.
And if the pain
and despair that I suffered
after losing my mother
to mental illness...
if it helps one young boy feel
less alone in this world,
then it's all worth it.
Does he look fat?
The TV adds ten pounds,
plus he broke his diet.
Why does he have
a room like this?
To lock people up?
It's a panic room, Grandma.
Security company installed it.
Music gave me the strength
to keep going
after my mother passed away,
and I believe...
He promised he wouldn't
lock me up again.
They should all know he's a liar
and a promise-breaker.
Listen to him
tell his lies out there.
And so I'm dedicating
tonight to my mother.
Thank you.
* I might not make it,
I might not make it... *
Okay, let me get
this straight.
First, you two run
Empire together,
and now you two are
on the red carpet tonight.
Ugh.
So, does this mean Cookie
and Lucious Lyon are...?
CAROL:
Hey, Cookie!
Hey, Cook! Hi Cookie!
Excuse me, girl.
A CEO's job
is never done.
I'll be right back.
(laughing)
Hey, y'all know Empire
started in my garage, right?
Excuse me one sec.
Loretha!
Hey, girl!
Hey, good to see you.
Come here. Hey.
Carol, walk away.
Okay? Walk away
before I drag your drunk ass
by your nappy weave.
Okay?
(kissing sounds)
You smell good.
Thank you.
You look pretty.
You, too. Go home.
Get home safely.
Okay.
Make sure she leaves.
Yeah.
CAROL:
Hi, hi.
Let's go, get her out.
Thank you,
thank you, thank you.
PHOTOGRAPHER:
Freda, Freda!
CAROL:
Oh, Freda! (cheers)
Oh, my gosh. Hi, Freda.
I always thought you were
so cute and talented.
Thank you, Miss Carol.
You all right?
Um, yeah, yeah.
You need me to
call you a Uber?
No, no, no,
no, no, no, no,
but you know what I need
for you to do?
I need for you to escort
me up in this place
so I can get Lucious'
people off my tail.
I got more press to do.
You got press to do?
What you talking about,
you got more press to do?
Yeah, I got more press.
You think you're better
than me or something, huh?
Come on.
You know what?
You wouldn't even be here
if Lucious didn't feel guilty
about what he did to your daddy.
SECURITY GUARD:
This way, please.
Come on, let's go.
Yeah, hood rat.
Your daddy.
Get your hands off me.
* Boom, boom, boom, boom
* Bang, bang, bang, bang
* Boom, boom, boom, boom...
FREDA:
* They askin',
"Why you do that, baby?" *
* I'm wildin' on the block,
like, "Why you do that, baby?" *
* They wonder...
* I like the way you rhyme
and how you grew that daisy. *
That's your little girl?
Yeah, that's my girl.
CAROL: Your daddy.
LUCIOUS: Name was Frank Gathers.
PHOTOGRAPHER:
Lucious Lyon!
You and me,
we cut from the same tree.
Lucious Lyon!
Okay, uh, where's Andre?
Um, I think he's in
there with Rhonda.
I saw her go in.
She was looking for him,
but she couldn't find him.
COOKIE: No.
Okay, well, n-n-n-no,
no family picture
until we get...
(screaming)
(gunshot)
LUCIOUS: Come on.
Your father didn't want this
for you. Let me help you.
LUCIOUS:
He loved you so much
that if
you cut off his right arm,
he'd reach over and hug you
with his left one.
CAROL:
You wouldn't even be here
if Lucious
didn't feel guilty about
what he did to your daddy.
LUCIOUS:
What the hell
your daddy do to you?
Lucious has been like a father
to me, you know that.
HAKEEM:
And you think that's
a good thing.
Just brace yourself
for when he abandons you, too.
Get away from Empire.
Stay away from that man.
(grunts)
(screaming)
No, no, no.
Stop, Freda, no!
(gunshot)
(screaming)
Get the gun!
Lucious? Are you hit?
I'm okay. She missed.
Mom! Mom!
(screaming)
Jamal!
Call...
boy, why you standing there?
Jamal.
Okay.
Jamal, Jamal. Look at me.
You gonna be all right, okay?
(sobbing)
No, no, no!
Say something.
Let's go.
Jamal, you're
gonna make it.
Oh, God, no, please!
Wake up, boy.
Say something.
Say something...
No, no, no, no, no, no...
Hey, Thirsty!
Open the damn door, man. Let me
out of here. It's my brother!
As we reported at the top
of the program,
this year's ASA ceremony
was canceled...
Thirsty!
...for the first time ever in...
Open the door, Thirsty!
Come on, man!
Superstar Jamal Lyon
was tragically shot
on the red carpet.
According to eyewitness
testimony from the carpet,
the horrific shooting
was committed
by another Empire artist,
upstart rapper Freda Gathers,
who goes by the stage name
Freda Gatz.
(moaning)
Freda was plucked from obscurity
by Empire CEO Lucious Lyon
earlier this year,
and was quickly labeled
his prodigy
and the face of Empire's
revived Gutter Life imprint.
Oh, my God.
(phone buzzing)
Sources indicate
that in recent weeks,
Freda had grown closer
to her victim,
even collaborating
on new tracks with him.
PARAMEDIC:
26 year-old black male,
gunshot wound
to the stomach.
No exit wound, might
be internal bleeding.
Prep OR 2.
Mom, I'm okay, Mom.
I'm all right.
Keep-- Jamal, keep your eyes
open. Look at me!
Don't you take your
eyes off me, boy.
Open your eyes.
What happened?
Where's Dad?
I'm here. I'm fine.
He's fine. He's fine.
You take care of my boy.
DOCTOR:
We need more A-positive stat.
Jamal, you're going to be fine.
Doctors-- they're just
gonna patch you back up.
DOCTOR:
We don't have time to wait.
(monitor beeping)
Get him for surgery.
Let's move, people!
Now! Now!
No, no, no, Jamal!
I'm sorry, this is as
far as you can go.
I got to go...
Take them to Surgical Waiting.
Cookie, it's gonna be...
Get your hands off of me.
This is your fault,
you son of a...
Hey! Put them damn cameras down!
Put them down!
Hasn't he given
you enough already?
LUCIOUS:
Cookie.
(crying):
Don't you touch me.
Get out of the way, Lucious.
REPORTER:
Freda's since been taken
into police custody.
Let's get to your family.
So far
no motive has been revealed.
According to reports,
Jamal Lyon is undergoing
Let's go.
emergency surgery and remains
in critical condition.
Superstar Jamal Lyon
was tragically shot
on the red carpet.
If you're just tuning
into the program,
we are saddened to report
that beloved musician
Jamal Lyon has been shot...
Excuse me.
Do you have any news yet?
No, ma'am.
They'll let you know.
You said that
30 minutes ago.
(crying):
I'm sorry.
Ma.
What?
That's my baby.
That evil bitch
shot my baby.
She shot at Lucious.
And Jamal just stepped
in front of the bullet.
Come on, Mom.
ANDRE:
How is he?
RHONDA: There you are.
How's Jamal?
Sit down.
COOKIE:
He's...
(crying):
He's still in surgery,
and they're not
telling us anything.
Dre, they're not
RHONDA:
Where were you?
I was looking
everywhere for you.
Look, not now, okay, babe?
I can't believe they're
giving an ASA update.
TV ANNOUNCER:
ASA for Rapper of the Year
goes to... Skrills.
Finally we come
to the big prize,
the ASA for Best Song
of the Year.
COOKIE:
Please, come on.
We need a reason to smile.
Jamal, come on.
The ASA for Best Song
of the Year goes to...
"Dreaming" by P.O.C.
(groans)
ANNOUNCER: Thank you.
HAKEEM:
They split the votes.
All that fighting,
you and Jamal.
For what? Nothing?
TARIQ:
Carol Hardaway's a wreck.
She won't be
a reliable witness.
We should
still press her.
I don't want to
do that to her,
and besides,
I don't need her.
What happened tonight at the
ASAs, that wasn't random.
It touches right on the nerve
of what I've been building on.
Bodies were dropping under
Lucious Lyon 20 years ago.
Bunkie Campbell told someone
he murdered four drug dealers.
Are you gonna bring
me something big?
Always, but you know
how I like to work.
I like to put things
together carefully.
Lucious Lyon's ex-fianc,
pregnant by his son, Hakeem.
And she's willing to talk?
Not yet, but I'm
planning to persuade her.
(siren wailing)
Anybody want coffee?
I'll take one.
I'll go with you.
HAKEEM:
I guess we're on
snack patrol now.
Huh?
(chuckles)
(sighs)
You mind if I sit down?
Damn, Cookie.
If you heard the things
I said to Jamal.
Maybe it would've been better
if my mama had drowned me.
Stop.
You were born into
a living hell.
That you can't help.
But I know, deep down,
you want to do what's
right for your family.
I know it.
Mr. and Mrs. Lyon?
(overlapping chatter)
(siren wailing)
Some are saying tonight's
incident is more proof
that hip-hop culture
breeds violence.
But now, could Jamal Lyon end up
paying for it with his life?
...citing privacy concerns,
but we'll remain on the scene...
...by Freda Gathers,
seems to be a message...
REPORTER:
Look! Someone just came outside.
REPORTER 2: Who is she?
REPORTER 3: Excuse me.
Excuse me. Excuse me, ma'am.
(reporters clamoring)
Is there any news
about Jamal?
Are you part
of the family, ma'am?
Do you have any news
about Jamal Lyon's condition?
Yes, I am part of the family.
REPORTER:
Ma'am, what is your name?
LEAH:
Boom.
REPORTER 2:
Do you have any new information?
Boom.
REPORTER 3: What is your
relationship to Lucious Lyon?
Boom.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH